slides/practical_zero_trust/what-is-zero-trust.md, before:


<h3>A brief history of <em class="colors-yellow-400">buzzwords</em></h3>

- _Early 90's_ - Antiviruses
- _Late 90's_ - "Deep Package Inspection"
- _Early 2000's_ - PKI
- _Late 2000's_ - Next Generation Firewalls
- _Early 2010's_ - Defense-in-depth
- _Now_ - Zero Trust

---

<h3>Enter the <span class="colors-yellow-500">Vendors</span></h3>

<div class="container">
    <div class="col">
        <ul>
            <li>Akamai</li>
            <li>Amazon AWS</li>
            <li>Centrify</li>
            <li>Cloud Harmonics</li>
            <li>Cloudflare</li>
            <li>Crowdstrike</li>
            <li>Duo Beyond</li>
            <li>Enablis</li>
            <li>Forcepoint</li>
            <li>Google BeyondCorp</li>
            <li>IBM</li>
        </ul>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
        <ul>
            <li>Illumio</li>
            <li>McAfee</li>
            <li>Microsoft</li>
            <li>Okta</li>
            <li>Ping Indentity</li>
            <li>Palo Alto Networks</li>
            <li>Prove</li>
            <li>Proofpoint</li>
            <li>Unisys</li>
            <li>ZScaler</li>
            <li><em>and more...</em></li>
        </ul>
    </div>
</div>
---

<h3>So what is <span class="colors-yellow-400">Zero Trust?</span></h3>

- Like _"Cloud"_ - depends on what you want to hear.
- An (architectural) design mentality.
- Born from combination of processes and technologies.
- A unfied experience for staffs, partners and users.
- Reduced management complexity.
---

<h3><span class="colors-yellow-400">Zero Trust</span> Principles</h3>

- Verify explicitly
- Apply least privileged access
- Always assume breach

---

<h3>What <span class="colors-yellow-400">Zero Trust</span> is not...</h3>

- "Next-generation" VPNs, firewalls, antiviruses,...
- A one-off project
- An off-the-shelf product
- Move everything to the _"cloud"_

Commit message:

Add reveal.js-plantuml module and zero trust exercise slide.

slides/practical_zero_trust/what-is-zero-trust.md, after:


<h3>A brief history of <em class="colors-yellow-400">buzzwords</em></h3>

- _Early 90's_ - Antiviruses
- _Late 90's_ - "Deep Package Inspection"
- _Early 2000's_ - PKI
- _Late 2000's_ - Next Generation Firewalls
- _Early 2010's_ - Defense-in-depth
- _Now_ - Zero Trust

---

<h3>Enter the <span class="colors-yellow-500">Vendors</span></h3>

<div class="container">
    <div class="col">
        <ul>
            <li>Akamai</li>
            <li>Amazon AWS</li>
            <li>Centrify</li>
            <li>Cloud Harmonics</li>
            <li>Cloudflare</li>
            <li>Crowdstrike</li>
            <li>Duo Beyond</li>
            <li>Enablis</li>
            <li>Forcepoint</li>
            <li>Google BeyondCorp</li>
            <li>IBM</li>
        </ul>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
        <ul>
            <li>Illumio</li>
            <li>McAfee</li>
            <li>Microsoft</li>
            <li>Okta</li>
            <li>Ping Indentity</li>
            <li>Palo Alto Networks</li>
            <li>Prove</li>
            <li>Proofpoint</li>
            <li>Unisys</li>
            <li>ZScaler</li>
            <li><em>and more...</em></li>
        </ul>
    </div>
</div>
---

<h3>So what is <span class="colors-yellow-400">Zero Trust?</span></h3>

- Like _"Cloud"_ - depends on what you want to hear.
- An (architectural) design mentality.
- Born from combination of processes and technologies.
- A unified experience for staffs, partners and users.
- Reduced management complexity.
---

<h3><span class="colors-yellow-400">Zero Trust</span> Principles</h3>

- Verify explicitly
- Apply least privileged access
- Always assume breach

---

<h3>What <span class="colors-yellow-400">Zero Trust</span> is not...</h3>

- "Next-generation" VPNs, firewalls, antiviruses,...
- A one-off project
- An off-the-shelf product
- Move everything to the _"cloud"_
- Replacement for previous technologies
- Trust nothing
